# Sumo Wrestling Machine Learning Project


The goal of this project was to use machine learning to **predict the outcomes of sumo wrestling bouts** in Japanese Sumo Grand Tournaments.

Most of the project focused on data collection and exploration. On the prediction side, a simple logistic regression model ingesting a few key features can predict the outcomes of a grand tournament with about 61% accuracy. Better than random chance, but not enough margin to beat the betting markets. A lot of work can be done regarding prediction.


## Folders

data/  : contains data collected from online, public database using the Beautiful Soup Library. Stored as pickle files from pandas dataframes.

plots/ : contains visualizations of data in Seaborn plots saved as png's.

tourneys/ : contains daily tourney head-to-head lineups for March (Haru) Basho 2017.


## Python Scripts and Modules

Machine Learning Files:

   - **machine_learning.py** : Script for doing various machine learning tasks, including model evaluation & predicting outcomes of new bouts.

   - **ml_fxns.py** : Module with helper functions for various machine learning tasks. Could include data pre-processing tasks, prediction tasks, etc.


Data Scraping Files:

   - **rikishi_scrape.py** : Module with functions used for scraping data with Beautiful Soup. Functions are used when scraping data from multiple html pages/sumo wrestlers.

   - **scrape_multiple_h2h.py** : Script to scrape head-to-head data for multiple sumo wrestlers.

   - **scrape_multiple_rikishi.py** : Script to scrape basic profile data for multiple sumo wrestlers.


Data Preparation Files:

   - **data_extraction.py** : Module with helper functions for processing information extracted from html tags using scraping libraries (e.g. Beautiful Soup). 

   - **database_ops.py** : Module with helper functions to perform various operations with DataFrames.

   - **feature_generation.py** : Script to generate DataFrame containing feature data and labels.

   - **filter_duplicates.py** : Script to filter out the duplicate rows in raw head-to-head DataFrame generated by feature generation script.



## Jupyter Notebooks

**ml_playground.ipynb** : notebook for playing around with various machine learning tasks.

**testing_playground.ipynb** : notebook for testing miscellaneous pieces of code.

**visualizations.ipynb** : notebook for generating Seaborn visualizations of scraped data.


[Seaborn]: <https://seaborn.pydata.org/>
[Sumo Reference]: <http://sumodb.sumogames.de/>
[Beautiful Soup]: <https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/>